[Transcript missing]
The tools we have range from
tools for provisioning iPhones,
for configuring iPhones efficiently,
for developing applications for iPhones,
and for doing all that while keeping
your networks and your data secure.
The things we're going to be
covering are actually divided
up into three presenters.
We have three presenters from Apple here.
The first presenter will be Ron,
who's going to--he's
from our tools group.
He's going to talk about the tools
that Apple has to provision iPhones,
that is,
making them initially loaded with
the keys that will allow them to
run your apps that will allow you
to track that iPhone with that user,
and to configure them, that is,
how to automatically set the
configuration settings on a phone
for your employee for a whole
variety of things so they're not,
you know, flipping through manually
setting up their phone.
After Ron,
we'll have Steve come up and talk
about iPhone app development.
And, of course, this entire conference is
on iPhone app development,
and there's a ton of sessions.
One of the things Steve's going
to focus in on is why and how you
would develop Web applications as
opposed to native applications.
And, of course,
those of you from IT know that there are
many situations where a Web application
is much more efficient way to roll
out functionality to your employees.
There's no installation involved.
You simply change the
Web site and the app changes.
And Steve's going to talk about some of
the techniques and the tools for making
Web-based applications on the iPhone,
when you would do that,
when you wouldn't do that,
and how you can make those apps be great.
And then finally, Curtis is going to
come up and talk about,
okay, now you've deployed phones
in your organizations.
You have deployed applications on them.
So, you've deployed them on your devices.
You've deployed them on your devices.
And then, of course,
you've deployed them on your devices.
[Transcript missing]
The types of challenges that we're
going to talk about today for the
IT groups--how do you provision
these things in your organization?
How do you configure them?
How do you roll out a new configuration
once they're already in the field?
That's what the first talk
from Ron is going to be about.
How do you do this securely?
What kind of VPNs do you need
to deploy to keep things secure?
How do you make sure that
your SSL certificates are set
up correctly on the phone?
Actually,
the third presentation will cover that.
In addition,
should it happen if an employee loses
an iPhone or the iPhone gets stolen,
of course,
you want the capability to remote
wipe that phone so that you don't
lose track of that corporate data.
So let's get started.
First presentation on
configuration and provisioning.
This is going to be all about
the tools we have for doing that,
including things like the
iPhone Configuration Utility,
which you will get to know and love.
And to come present that is Ron Lusang
from Development Technologies.
So, Ron.
Great.
Thanks, Bud.
Morning, everyone.
My name is Ron Lusang,
and I'm a member of the
Development Technologies Group here
at Apple.
And for the next 15 minutes or so,
I'd like to introduce you to a utility
that we created specifically to
make it easier for you to introduce
iPhones into your organizations.
And we call it the iPhone
Configuration Utility.
And here's what it looks like.
It looks a lot like iTunes.
That's because a lot of
the metaphors are the same.
We have a library of items that we want
to manage and might have some connected
iPhones that you want to push items to.
And of course,
we'll see the detailed information
about whatever library item
or connected iPhone you have.
But instead of managing ringtones,
music and videos, we manage devices,
kind of a record of all of
the iPhones that you've ever
connected to this computer,
applications--so these are the
applications that you'll push
over to your iPhones--provisioning
profiles and configuration profiles,
which I'll describe more
about later on in my slides.
Now, of course,
iTunes--the target audience for iTunes is
very different from the target audience
we had for iPhone Configuration Utility.
We actually had three target audiences
for iPhone Configuration Utility,
the first being those who
are doing IT administration,
so people who need to keep
track of all the iPhones that
they've deployed throughout their
organization or who need to set up
the iPhones that they're giving out,
possibly installing
applications and such.
The second audience that we concentrated
on are those who are doing QA testing,
specifically for these in-house
applications that we're looking
forward to hearing about.
And there are those who are doing
network and security administration.
So those are the individuals who provide
these great--the great access and network
services for their employees but need
to ensure some security policies are
enforced on those iPhones in the case,
as Bud mentioned,
that the iPhone is lost or stolen.
So with the rest of my slides,
I'll just go one by one through each
of these three audiences and talk about
what iPhone Configuration Utility can
do to help them work with iPhones.
And of course, we'll go in order,
starting off with IT administration.
So as I said, for IT administrators,
you really need to keep track of all of
the iPhones that you're responsible for,
including who you gave the iPhone to,
of course,
and probably you'll have to set up the
iPhone with some in-house applications.
So iPhone Configuration Utility
lets you do exactly that.
You plug in an iPhone,
we create a record of that iPhone
so that you can keep track of it
and keep track of who you've given
it to and install applications and
something called provisioning profiles,
which I'll talk more about in a minute.
So this is what you'll see once
you've plugged an iPhone into
iPhone Configuration Utility.
It's a device summary.
You'll see we still have the cool
iTunes tabbed style UI with the
summary tab and then a provisions tab,
applications and a console tab.
Here in the summary,
you can see information
about this iPhone,
like the serial number or the UD ID.
You can even associate contact
information either by typing
it in yourself or using the
people picker from address book.
This is the same people
picker from address book,
by the way,
that could be hooked up to your
back-end organization's LDAP directory.
And you can use that to associate
contact information as well.
From the Summary tab,
I'd like to jump over to
the Applications tab here.
Here you can see all of the applications
that you have in your IPCU library and
all of the applications that are already
installed on this connected iPhone.
So from here you can install new
applications or remove old ones,
update existing ones.
And we have a similar UI for
provisioning profiles here.
So I think this is a good
time to introduce provisioning
profiles in more detail.
So as a sidebar,
provisioning profiles are the
key to allowing an application
to run on the iPhone.
So this is why it's important that
iPhone Configuration Utility allows
you to install both applications and
their associated provisioning profiles.
Provisioning profiles have two
important pieces of information.
The first being the
application creator's identity.
This is a signing certificate,
which you use when you're signing the
application that you're installing,
that you intend to give out.
and this gives your users authentication
so that they can know that this
application actually came from you.
The second important piece
of information is a list of
Universal Device Identifiers,
or UDIDs.
These are the ones that I mentioned
earlier that we saw in our Summary tab.
And what this gives the iPhone,
as well as you as IT individuals,
is authorization so that the application
that you've signed with this provisioning
profile will only run on the iPhones
that are in this list of UDIDs.
So this is a very important
thing for IT management.
And of course,
this wouldn't make much difference
if somebody could go in and fool
with the contents of the file.
So provisioning profiles are
also signed to prevent tampering.
So that's all I wanted to say for
right now about provisioning profiles.
Curtis will talk a little
bit more about this later.
I'd like to jump back to our
summary of our device records.
So here we've selected our
device records library item
instead of a connected iPhone.
You can see we have the
same information here.
The Summary tab is there with all of the
contact information we've already set.
We have the Provisioning and Applications
tab still so that you can see once
you've disconnected these iPhones,
the summary information,
all this information we've gleaned,
is still there and is
kept there as a record.
We even show you when the last
time this iPhone was connected.
And with all of this information,
it's very useful to be able to export it.
So, IPCU--iPhone Configuration
Utility--lets you export these
records for either backup purposes or
sharing with other IT tools you have.
They're simple XML files.
You can even share it with other
users using iPhone Configuration
Utility on other computers.
And we can also export
all of these records,
multiple records,
as a single file which you can send
to Apple's developer connection when
you're requesting provisioning profiles.
So this gives you that list of
UDIDs that I mentioned inside
of a provisioning profile.
So that's just a few of the
things that iPhone Configuration
Utility can help with for those
who are doing IT administration.
Again, just keeping records of your
iPhones and installing provisioning
profiles and their applications,
as well as being able to export
all of this information to a
usable format for other purposes.
So stepping away from the
IT administrators for a second,
we can focus on those
who are doing QA testing.
So if you're testing
in-house applications,
we've already seen something that
IPCU will do to help out here.
That's installing those applications
that you're going to test onto
those iPhones you're testing with.
Apart from installing applications
and provisioning profiles,
though,
If you're going to do QA,
chances are you want to find out what's
actually happening on the iPhone that's
running your in-house application or
need to do some network diagnostics about
what an iPhone is doing out in the field.
And for that,
iPhone Configuration Utility
lets you view device logs.
So here again,
we see we've selected a connected iPhone.
And in that fourth tab there,
the Console tab,
you can see the record of
what the iPhone was doing.
This includes your application
logging as well as anything that
the iPhone itself has logged.
And it looks a lot like the
console output you're familiar
with from console on Mac OS X.
So, a short set of slides for QA testing.
The next audience I'd like to
concentrate on are those who are doing
network administration or security.
So as a network administrator,
you're providing all of this
great access via VPN or Wi-Fi,
as well as network services
such as email accounts or
Exchange ActiveSync accounts now.
And in order to provide these services,
most network administrators
really require that the end
user devices are secure,
that they can ensure some security policy
is really enforced on those end user
devices in case they're lost or stolen.
and you can prevent sensitive data
from falling into the wrong hands.
So the way we do that with the iPhone
and iPhone 2.0 software is using
something called configuration profiles.
So here I'll take a sidebar and
describe more in detail what
a configuration profile is.
So a configuration profile is simply
a file full of device settings.
So the simple XML plist files
that contain settings for
things like email accounts,
security settings, networking setup,
pretty much anything you could set up
directly on the iPhone for an end user.
But the real power in configuration
profiles is that you can also set up
things that you wouldn't want your end
users to configure by hand or things that
there's no UI on the iPhone to configure.
and configuration profiles are
installable by either email or
Safari directly on the iPhone.
What this means is that you don't
ever have to connect an iPhone in
order to install these files and
configure it-- configure that iPhone.
You could create a configuration profile,
post it on a secure web server or
send it out to your users as email,
and they can install it on their iPhones
without ever tethering the device.
and of course,
iPhone Configuration Utility allows
you to create configuration profiles.
So, anything that a configuration
profile can set up on the iPhone,
iPhone Configuration
Utility lets you configure.
Things like passcode policies which,
you know,
so you can actually require that your
users have a passcode on their iPhones,
even setting the strength of
the passcode that they use,
or the maximum age in days.
We can set up application restrictions
so that you can prevent your
users from watching too much
YouTube or surfing on the net,
surfing the web.
You can,
and in exchange for accepting these
security policies on your behalf,
the end users can get access
to things you've set up such
as pre-canned email settings,
or you can embed certificates in
these configuration profiles which
you can use to simplify setting
up VPN access or Wi-Fi access.
You can even set up
Exchange ActiveSync accounts.
And again,
a lot of this would be pretty scary if it
weren't for the fact that you could sign
these configuration profiles as well,
so that you can give your
end users authentication,
knowing that the configuration profile
that they're installing actually comes
from their IT or network organization.
And here's what it looks like to set up
a configuration profile inside of IPCU.
Here we've chosen the Wi-Fi tab.
I'm not sure how clear
it is in the back there.
But you can set up for this,
we're setting up Wi-Fi where we can
describe which SSID we want to use.
We can even choose certificates
for our authentication method.
We can even use it for
our trust settings.
So this is just a snapshot of some of
the things that you can set up with IPCU.
And in order to give
access to more people,
instead of having only iPhone
configuration utility for the desktop,
we also came up with iPhone
configuration utility for the web.
It's the same configuration
profile creation and signing
features that you saw just now
in iPhone Configuration Utility.
implemented as a web application.
And it's the back -- oh, here we go.
You can see it's all the same tabs
but this is all running in Safari.
We even support all the signing features,
and the backend runs on Mac OS X,
Windows XP, and Vista,
and the browser piece supports IE7,
Firefox, and Safari.
So this way, since configuration profiles
can be installed without
ever connecting an iPhone,
a lot of network and security
administrators can end up
configuring iPhones that
they never touch or even see.
So this is really powerful.
Now you can even set up these
configuration profiles over the web.
I thought you guys would be
excited about this web stuff.
What is this?
Yes.
Thank you.
You can put web on anything.
So that ends my tour of the
iPhone Configuration Utility.
That's just a quick look at some of the
things we can do for IT administrators
who need to keep track of all of their
iPhones that they're administering,
QA engineers who need to be able
to install those applications that
they're testing and get access to
the console logs on those test units,
and, of course,
for network and security administrators
who want to provide all these great
network services and access to their
end users but need the guarantee of
security on those end-user devices.
Now you can use iPhone Configuration
Utility to create configuration profiles
either on the desktop or via the web.
And with that,
I'd like to hand it back over to Bud.
Thank you.
applause
Thanks, Ron.
I highly recommend for more information,
there's a couple of sessions,
one on enterprise phone management
with configuration profiles.
Learn all about what's in
a configuration profile,
what are all the different settings you
can affect with that and how that works.
And there's also a deployment lab
where you can go and actually get
some hands-on and try this stuff out.
Next,
We're going to talk about
iPhone app development.
And we're lucky to have
Steve Cotterill come from our
own IT organization at Apple.
And of course,
we use iPhones extensively inside Apple.
And so our IT organization
has a lot of experience with
how you roll these things out,
how you make them useful,
how you make them secure.
And what Steve is going to
talk about is building apps,
custom apps or in-house
apps for the iPhone.
He's going to talk about when
you would build a web-based
application for the iPhone versus
a native app for the iPhone.
What are the criteria you
would use to decide that?
What are some of the tools that are
in technologies available for building
web applications on the iPhone?
And finally,
how do you make those applications great?
Well, I think the first thing is to make
sure that you're using the right tools.
So Steve?
Oh, my mic's on now.
Okay, great.
Hi, everybody.
As Bud said, my name is Steve Cotterill.
I work in Apple's
Enterprise Technologies Group,
and as he mentioned,
we've been building some of
the iPhone apps that we use
for ourselves and the company.
And today I'm going to talk
about iPhone application
development for IT app developers.
I'm going to focus on, first,
the design of IT applications,
what you should bother
putting on the iPhone,
what application platform
you should target,
and how you can actually make that
application a really great application.
Then I'm going to talk a little bit
about some development technologies,
what technologies are available,
what tools we have to help you,
and offer some of the tips that my
team has come across in the last year.
Finally,
I'm going to talk a little bit about
how you can deploy these applications,
and specifically what you can do to make
it really easy for your organization
to deploy applications very quickly.
So let's start with design.
So what should you consider
putting on the iPhone?
It seems kind of simple,
but the answer can be elusive.
As Bud mentioned,
everybody is going mobile.
And like I said, it's simple.
You need to build mobile applications
to address the needs of mobile users.
And that means the people in your
organization who are mobile all the time,
like people that are out in the field
doing sales or virtually anybody on a
university campus or anybody in your
organization when they're out on the go.
So you need to build applications
that help users with quick,
quick tasks.
Some examples are looking up something,
getting like a dictionary
reference or following the
status of something in progress.
Getting any kind of updates on what's
going on elsewhere in the organization.
Apps that help you make
more informed decisions,
keep you notified of what's going on.
Or applications that let you control
what's going on in your organization from
wherever you happen to be in the world.
These are the real
advantages of the iPhone.
Just to sum up real quick,
the takeaway from this slide is if it
could make a good dashboard widget,
it would be a great
candidate for an iPhone app.
application.
So once you've figured out
what you want to build,
you have this question, "Well,
how am I going to build
it?" And on the iPhone,
you have two platform options--yes, two.
So the first is the native SDK,
which we all know about.
But the second is you could
build it as a web application.
Some of you--I'm not sure.
Maybe half the room is already, "Yeah,
I'm not going to bother with native.
I'm going to do web." But maybe
half the room is asking,
"Now that I have an SDK,
why do I have to keep building web
applications?" And the answer is
the same reason you would build a
web application for the desktop.
There's no installation to worry about,
instant deployment, instant update.
These are the things that within Apple we
value because we really need all of
our users to be on the same version
of our software at any given moment.
So if you need help making this decision,
I just put up some of the
platform features available.
Like I said, if instant deployment,
instant updates,
and cross-platform compatibility
are important to you,
you can't beat a web app.
If, however,
your application needs access
to some of the new spiffy
APIs like location services,
camera services, audio or 3D graphics,
or if it needs to be able to work
without an internet connection,
you really need to build
it as a native application.
It's just not an option.
But for everything else,
most of the features that you
want for your applications are
available in both platforms.
They both integrate with all
the other apps on the phone.
You can build the same iPhone look
and feel into your applications
using Interface Builder if it's
native or Dashcode if it's a web app.
Both platforms support the ability
to have a custom application icon
added to the user's home screen.
They both now support
multi-touch gestures.
And with hardware-accelerated
CSS animation on the iPhone for web apps,
your web apps are just going to
start to look just like native apps.
If you're not sure which
way you want to go,
I suggest looking at it this way.
If you think about how often you
plan on updating your application
versus how often you think users are
going to be using your application.
And if you plot your application
somewhere in this space,
you'll see that the more often
that people use it and the
less often that you update it,
it would probably be a good
candidate for a native application.
But if users aren't going
to use it very often,
but you're going to update it a lot,
it would probably be worth it to
develop it as a web application.
Now, I have some examples just so
you get a better feel of how
things fall in this graph.
The stocks widget on the phone.
I don't even think it has been updated.
It doesn't need to be updated.
What we've got works fine.
The only thing that would ever
cause it to need an update would
be if our data source dropped out.
We'd need to change where it points.
But it's never needed updating,
and the people that use
it use it all the time.
It's a great application for native.
A lot of IT applications,
specifically business
forms and business reports,
need to change with your organization.
So if you start selling a new product,
if your governance laws change,
anything like that,
you need to update that application.
And in some cases,
that means that every time
somebody uses the app,
they need to get a new version.
And that means it's better as a web app.
The trick to this is noticing that
this slide is not evenly distributed.
There's this hot spot where
native activity is really,
really effective.
And that's because even the
most popular application,
the one that gets used
by users all the time,
if you change it too often,
eventually it's not worth making users
update a new version all the time.
So a web app is a better choice.
And on the other side,
even if you plan on never,
ever changing your application,
if nobody's interested in using it,
it's probably better as a web app.
They can visit it when they need it.
So,
Like I said, and as Bud said,
in Apple we focus on web
applications for the enterprise,
largely because it is critical
that everybody be on the same
version and we don't want to make
people have to go through any
setup or installation beforehand.
So most of my talk from now on is
actually going to be focused on web apps.
But before I leave native,
I want to talk about what makes
a great iPhone application.
Great iPhone applications are
the ones that help the user
with getting something done.
Getting something done
quickly without distraction,
without taking up too much
of their time so that they
can move on with their lives.
Great applications are focused.
They're not trying to solve every
problem that a computer could do.
They're just trying to help you with
a specific task while you're mobile.
They're fast.
They need to load
quickly and run quickly.
And they need to be ready to be
interrupted by a phone call or
because the user really needs to turn
off their phone in class or whatever.
And then they need to be
able to resume immediately.
They are formatted not
only for the screen,
which we all know is
not a desktop screen,
but they're formatted for
use in a mobile setting.
That means that your colors should
be readable at an arm's length in
sunlight and your touch controls
should be big enough to touch and your
text should be large enough to read.
Great iPhone apps adopt the
UI conventions set forth by the
iPhone to provide a familiar
experience to users so they don't
take any time to learn how to use.
And finally,
great iPhone applications integrate
with other iPhone applications.
You should provide links to dial phone
numbers if you have them or write new
emails if you have them or get maps.
These things users will
greatly appreciate.
I have some great examples
from applications.
One, the first I'm going to
start is a consumer example.
Everybody could take out your iPhone.
Please don't do it now.
You could all see this.
It's fandango.com.
If you're not familiar,
because I think they only work in the
U.S., fandango is a website that offers
movie tickets and show times for users.
Being a standards-compliant website,
it works wonderfully on the phone.
It works beautifully.
You can go there.
You can do everything that
you could do normally.
But fandango decided to build a
version of their site for the iPhone,
and this is it.
And why this is great is it's literally
a hundred times lighter weight.
The size of the website
that has to be downloaded,
the size that has to be hosted,
the size that has to be transferred
and then loaded onto the phone
is literally a hundred times
smaller than the original Fandango.
It loads a hundred fewer
files from your web server.
And all this adds up to seven
times faster loading on Wi-Fi.
Well, probably seven times on anything.
But it takes five
seconds to load on Wi-Fi.
So this is an application that's focused.
They didn't deliver everything
that Fandango's website has.
There aren't photos or trailers,
but they have what you
need when you're on the go.
They have movie show times and they
have the ability to buy tickets.
It's very fast, as I said,
loads in five seconds on Wi-Fi.
It's formatted,
uses the same UI that people are
familiar with on the iPhone using
the table view style navigation.
And it's integrated.
If you find a theater
and buy tickets there,
then you can call to get directions
or you could just go to the
Maps application and get directions.
For an enterprise example,
for large organizations,
we think a great example is a directory.
My group built the Apple Directory app
that Scott Forstall
demoed last year at WWDC,
which some of you may like
because it shows that you can
actually develop web apps,
but some of you may hate
because it was secretly telling
you we don't have an SDK yet.
But now we do.
So we thought this was a good example.
We took the very same Apple Directory web
application that we provide
to our employees to look up
anybody else in the company,
and we built it for the iPhone.
And it's fast.
Most calls come back
within three seconds.
It's formatted.
It fits perfectly on the screen.
You don't need to zoom or pan.
It offers the exact same
UI that's in your contact list.
It's an integrated application.
It's based on a contact book.
So if users have already
dealt with contacts,
they already know how
to use this application.
And it's integrated.
You can touch a phone
number to call a person.
You can email a person directly
by touching their email address.
Or you can touch their office
location to find out where they are.
Now, phone books and movie
times are really fun,
but IT data is a lot more
complicated than that,
right?
So you're saying, "Well, that's great.
You guys made wonderful applications
that do this cute little toy stuff,
but what about my data?
My data is ugly.
So how are you going to help
me?" So I wanted to show
you a real business example.
What we did was we were asked earlier
this year to port a sales report for
the company from a web to the iPhone.
And we did it using the same data,
the same database as the original report,
so there's no conflict in numbers.
We focused it, though, for real-time use,
and we format it to be
used on the mobile device.
And I'd like to show you how we did it.
So this is an example of
the original sales report.
It's not the real thing,
but it's an example.
It shows actual and forecast sales
figures so far for a store so far today,
this week and this quarter,
across the revenues that we
make and then the rates of sale,
the products that we sell,
and the services that we sell.
And we use this to judge how we're doing.
So we went back to our
previous business model,
which was a web application, and we said,
"Okay, it has to make it onto the phone.
We could just put it on the phone,
but that's not readable at all."
So we went back and we said,
"Okay, we're going to have to put a
little bit more effort into
it than that." So we said,
"Well, what do people need when they're
checking -- if they're going to check
this sales report on their phone,
what do they care about when they're
not at their desk?" And we realized
that they don't care about how we're
doing this week or this quarter.
They care about how we're doing now.
So we dropped that data.
And they don't care about how
individual products are selling.
They care about what kinds
of products are selling.
So we summarized that data.
And that gave us a much
more manageable data set.
So again, we said, "Okay,
a good day's work, right?
We solved that problem.
Works okay on the phone."
But that didn't please everybody.
So we said, "Okay,
we need to format this for mobile
use." And what we did was we
completely reimagined the data.
It's the same data,
but we've completely changed
the visual representation.
We've chosen to use icons instead
of category names to save space.
And that made room for these bar graphs,
which let you look at comparable numbers
immediately and know how you're doing.
So in this case,
we're beating the pants off our forecast.
So this is -- oh, yeah,
and we separated it into a revenue
section and a unit section.
So this gives users a less cluttered
view and some visual cues to
help them read the data without
actually having to read the data.
Which means that they can see
how we're doing and then put
it back in their pocket and go.
This is the unit side where we
show some of our product families
how they're selling and some of
the services how we're doing.
So we thought this was a pretty
good example of an iPhone app.
It's focused just on today's data,
and we've summarized the data
to be what the user cares
about when they're on the go.
It's fast.
The whole app loads within five seconds,
and real-time updates
come within two seconds.
and it's formatted.
It's built pixel for pixel.
This is the screen size.
You don't have to zoom in or pan.
Minimal scrolling.
It's pretty nice.
Now I'm going to talk a little bit
about developing these applications.
And I'm going to do it from
the perspective I know best,
which is,
what do we do inside the company?
[Transcript missing]
and David What we're really
excited about now are the new
web development technologies
that are available in iPhone 2.0.
You can now do multi-touch
gesture events in the DOM,
in JavaScript.
You can respond just like on click,
you can respond to on touch or on pinch,
I think.
I don't know if they have a pinch.
But you can react to multi-touch events.
And then with hardware
accelerated CSS animation,
people will forget that
they're using a web app.
They'll think they're
using a native application.
And the new feature in WebKit is
client-side persistence.
So if you need to store any files
or anything from a web application,
you can do it on the phone.
So next I'd like to talk
about the dev tools.
Now, if you saw the keynote yesterday,
Scott mentioned we've got a great
set of developer tools for you
to build native applications,
but he forgot one of my favorites.
He forgot Dashcode.
Dashcode is an amazing IDE for
building web applications,
and it's even better now.
I don't know if you've
taken a look at it recently.
And the iPhone simulator isn't just
for simulating your native apps.
It has the mobile Safari in it,
and you can test your web applications
in the iPhone simulator as if you were
actually testing them on the phone.
So Dashcode is a dual-mode editor.
You can put your applications
together by writing them in code,
or you can just drag and drop
components to edit--assemble
your application graphically.
It's very much like
Interface Builder and Xcode.
It has many iPhone templates
to get you started building an
iPhone application very quickly.
And it has a rich component library.
I can't say enough
nice things about this.
The Dashcode team has done some amazing
work building reusable components that
you can put into your application so
that you don't have to worry about
how lists work or how buttons work.
And they've got great sliding animations,
even flip animations.
You can make it look like you spent
twice as much time on your application.
and David Schmuck,
and I'm going to give you a little
bit of background on what DashCode is.
DashCode has a great
debugging environment for
JavaScript and web applications,
which I know if you've done
any web app development,
you should be very pleased to
know that you can actually debug
JavaScript applications more
like native applications now.
And if you want to,
DashCode even lets you do one-click
deployment to a web server.
All you have to do is
just work in DashCode,
test in the simulator,
and then hit share, and then it's out.
Everybody knows about it.
The iPhone simulator, like I said,
has the exact same version of
Safari that's on the phone.
So you can see how the viewport
and rotation events and multitouch
gestures affect the application
when it's actually deployed.
You can even see the real on-screen
keyboards that users see when
they're using their iPhones and
check out the home screen icon,
which you may build for your web
application so users can save
it right on their home screen.
So, over about a year of--yeah,
a little over a year--of iPhone
development for the enterprise,
we've picked up a few tricks.
I don't know if you know these yet,
but number one, if you can help it,
build a one-page application.
One HTML page and then everything
happens asynchronously,
dynamic.
This will save you a lot of bandwidth,
save you a lot of time.
It's a lot easier to carry data
from screen to screen when you're
not actually having to take it
from one screen to another screen.
And users get a better experience
because they don't have to
load more than one page.
Once the app is there,
they don't have to wait ever again.
and David Seifert are all great people.
Separate your static content
like CSS and JavaScript.
If it's not going to change, pull it out.
Make them separate files and then
deliver them to your users with
HTTP compression so you can get
them to the users much faster.
The iPhone will support it.
It will unfold the code.
It will load much faster, much quicker.
New in WebKit every day practically
are some great technologies
to help you render with CSS.
That means that you can
use things like borders,
gradients, transparency and shadows
-- these are just a few,
there's masks and reflections
too -- to actually build your
UI without loading a single image,
which is, I don't have to tell you,
much more lightweight.
And then for the images that
you just can't get rid of,
the whiz-bang graphics that
you just can't replace,
you really need to use the
CSS sprite technique where you take,
if you're not familiar,
you take a little bit of a little bit of
a little bit of a little So you take all
of your different graphics and you stitch
them together into a single image file
and then you use CSS to determine which
part of that image shows on the screen
in any given position or any given time.
That means you load one
image file instead of how
many images are in your app,
50?
I don't know.
And it makes your app load much
faster and then it's precached.
You know,
if you loaded the one image that's
all the images in the application you
don't have to load it again later.
demo of how that, yeah, sorry.
So finally, I'd like to talk very
briefly about deployment.
As Steve mentioned yesterday,
enterprise IT groups can deploy
native applications for their
users on an internal site.
Users visit the site,
they can open--they can
download the--your in-house
applications to their computer,
open them in iTunes and then
sideload them through it
to their tethered iPhones.
And that's great.
So we know how you can deploy
native applications without having
to be part of the public app store.
You could be part of the public app
store and secure your application with
employee passwords if you wanted to.
But as I said, we do web app deployment,
and we found that after we built
our first web app for the iPhone,
we had to find a place to host it,
which was actually surprisingly
difficult for a computer company.
We have to find a machine,
and then we have to get into the network,
and then we have to get a domain for it,
and we have to go through
all this red tape,
and then we have to expose
it to the outside world,
because we wanted to make
it convenient for users,
so we had to poke a hole in the firewall,
and then we had to secure that hole so
only Apple employees could get into it.
More bureaucracy.
And then finally,
we had to tell everybody where we put it.
We had to send out a company-wide email
that we've got this great new app,
and now you can go there,
and here's a link to it.
And then we had an app.
Which was okay, but before we finished
building our second app,
we kind of realized this
process won't scale.
We can't do this every time.
This is twice as much time as it
took to develop the application
just to get it out to people.
That's no good.
So our solution was to build an
enterprise mobile application portal.
We gave one URL for users to go to to
get all of the internal software that
we were going to deploy on the iPhone.
It means one entry point for security.
Security is much happier now.
And it's one host for
our iPhone applications.
So now that we have one host ready to go,
we can deploy applications
almost at will.
and the rest of the team.
And that means that users can bookmark
it right on their home screen.
All their Apple apps are right here.
They just touch it, it opens in Safari.
If they're not authenticated,
we stop them.
Then you have to explain who you are.
We take a name and password.
There are actually several
options for authenticating users,
and Curtis will talk a lot
about that in just a minute.
Once you've presented your credentials,
then we present you with the
mobile portal with links to all the
applications that we have to date.
And then they're one one
touch away from the user.
So to recap, focus your applications on
solving particular problems.
You don't need to do everything.
You just need to do something well.
Load your applications
quick and run fast,
even if you're on 3G iPhones.
Quicker is better.
and format for mobile use.
Remember, not just the screen,
the mobile context.
Users are outside in the sunlight,
maybe they're driving in their car,
god forbid, but whatever it may be.
Use familiar UI concepts and
people won't have to learn.
One of the things that we are
doing now is cutting training time
out of all of our software by sort
of standardizing the experience.
And you can integrate with the phone,
mail, other applications like Maps.
Users really appreciate
those convenience touches.
Definitely, definitely,
definitely go to Dash Code.
Dash Code is gonna save you so much time,
it's not even funny.
And the iPhone simulator,
it's not just for native applications,
it'll help you test your web app too.
If you have a
server-oriented architecture,
your iPhone applications can
just hook into that if you
just build Java serverlets,
like we did.
If you don't have a
service-oriented architecture,
this is the payoff.
If you've been sort of holding out like,
well, I don't see why I should go through
this extra trouble to build a
service-oriented architecture if
I still have to do all this extra work.
This is the payoff.
This is where you get to reuse
stuff and then move for free.
Cuts development time in half.
And finally, if you're considering
developing web applications,
more than one web application
for your organization,
a web portal, a mobile web portal is
so nice for your users.
All right, thanks, Steve.
This is a developers' conference.
There are a ton of sessions
on developing for the iPhone.
What we thought we'd do is put up a
few here that focus more on developing
web applications for the iPhone.
So if you have an interest in that,
I suggest you check out
these sessions here.
The final speaker is going
to talk about secure access.
So you've deployed iPhones,
you've deployed applications.
Hopefully you thought upfront
about all the security issues.
How do you securely connect to
phones in your organizations?
How do you make sure
the data is kept secure?
And luckily we have a ton of
technologies to help you do that,
ranging from VPN technology
to SSL to things like 802.1X,
things like remote wipe or
setting--configuring pin strength
or pin policies for your users.
So to talk about that,
we have Curtis Galloway who will
come and fill us in on security.
Curtis?
Thanks, bud.
So I'm Curtis Galloway.
I'm in the iPhone Engineering Department.
And I'm going to talk a little
bit about security on the iPhone.
So secure access for deploying
the iPhone in your organization,
you have your servers
with your data on it,
and you have iPhones
in your organization.
And you want to be able to make sure that
the data on your servers is not getting
out of where you think it should be.
You want to keep control of
that and keep control of your
assets that are based on that.
The most basic part of that is
securing your wireless network,
because that's the primary
way that you're going to
access data from the iPhone.
And we've already had
on the existing iPhone,
we have some amount of that,
but there's some new features about that.
When you're outside of your -- Yeah.
-- local enterprise,
you're going to access your
corporate network through VPN,
so we have some improvements there.
And certificates are another
way of increasing the security
on the phone by improving the
identification of your users and of
the resources that they're accessing.
And also,
you're able to set security policies
for iPhones that are owned by your
enterprise so that you can have
increased control and confidence
over how they're being used.
So first of all,
for Wi-Fi access security,
we've previously supported WEP,
WPA Personal, WPA2 Personal.
And in the new iPhone software release,
we've added enterprise-level
support for authentication.
So now we have WPA Enterprise,
WPA2 Enterprise,
and 802.1X authentication with EAP TLS,
EAP TTLS, and EAP Fast,
as well as PEEP and LEAP.
And so that gives you a lot more
flexibility for authenticating
users on your local Wi-Fi network.
So now you can, within your enterprise,
have a secure wireless connection
to access your corporate assets.
On the VPN front,
we've previously had support for L2TP,
IPSec and PPTP with name and password,
token-based authentication.
And that's been okay,
but a lot of you have been asking for
increased support for Cisco IPSec,
and so we have that now
in our enterprise-level
VPN support on the iPhone.
So you can use name and password,
secure ID tokens, crypto card tokens,
and certificate-based authentication
with your Cisco network.
And we think that is going to give you a
lot more flexibility with the equipment
that you're able to use for VPN access.
In the VPN configuration front,
you can use the iPhone configuration
utility to configure your user's
VPN access so they don't have to
go into the UI and select it and
configure all that stuff on their own.
You can simply create a configuration
profile for them that has all of the
settings for your company VPN that you
can deliver to them either on the web
or via e-mail or with tethered usage
of the iPhone configuration utility.
For certificate usage,
we allow you now to install
root trust certificates for
your organization so that if you
have your own signing authority,
you can add your own root CA certificate
so that users can trust all of the
certificates generated by that.
That's very convenient.
And we can also allow you to
pre-install server certificates so
that they can trust your servers
implicitly without having any warnings.
And identity certificates for
credentials for both VPN and Wi-Fi,
you can pre-configure those and
deliver them in a configuration
profile for the phone.
For certificates,
we support PKCS #1 and the common file
formats for that for root CA certificates
and server identity certificates,
and also PKCS #12 for user
identity certificates,
which include the encrypted
private key inside of them.
And those are easily generated
by a lot of different forms.
You can export them from keychain
access on a Mac if you already
have Macs in your organization.
Most certificate authorities can already
generate these files and export them.
And the iPhone configuration utility
can also import them and include
them in a device profile so that it's
all packaged up together for you.
and you can import raw certificate
files through Mail and Safari.
So if you just have the
certificate file by itself,
you can add that as an attachment
and you're able to import that
just as if it were a configuration
profile with one certificate in it.
So that's very convenient.
It doesn't require any additional
tools for generating those.
As you can see,
the iPhone configuration utility
gives you a tab to manage credentials.
You can include multiple
certificates in a profile.
So if you have an identity certificate,
a root CA and some server certificates,
you can add those all together and
include them in one profile that you
can easily install on a user's device.
And if you want to deploy the
certificates by themselves,
they just show up as
an attachment in email.
So that's a very convenient
way to distribute them.
And then it gets installed just as if it
were a profile and looks just like that.
It can be managed on the
phone in a similar fashion.
[Transcript missing]
And we also have the ability to
do a remote wipe of the device.
So if it's lost or stolen,
we have that out in the world somewhere,
you can use Exchange Server to
actually send a wipe command and
guarantee that that device is
going to have all its data erased.
The actual flaming is a premium feature.
So in summary, we have a number of new
features in the iPhone 2.0.
We have secure Wi-Fi access with 802.11
Enterprise and 802.1X authentication.
We have VPN access
improved with Cisco IPSec,
which can be configured
through configuration profiles.
And certificates for trust and identity,
you can include root CA certificate.
You can include user
identity certificates.
And we have the ability to set
security policies for your devices
for application installation,
for device restrictions and for remote
wipe to ensure the security of your data.
That's it.
Thanks, Curtis.
And again, for more information around
security on the iPhone,
we have a number of sessions here.
And, you know, in conclusion,
I want to say that we're
very excited about the iPhone
moving into the enterprise.
And we've had the pleasure
inside Apple of using the iPhone
for our enterprise for almost
the better part of a year now.
And you heard from our IT group
on some of our experiences
there and some tips and tricks.
But we think we're just
at the start of this.
And there's a ton of sessions
throughout the week and labs and
things you can go to to find out more
about the iPhone and the enterprise.
So I want to thank you
very much for coming.